

Let me give a little context before adding anything else. I think will aid in the UI design layout.

There will be a header for navigation. This will consist of: 
1. Music Reading (which is the current page), 2. Learn Theory - Beginner, 3. Learn Theory - Advanced, 4. Composition.

Below the header will be the options for changing:
1. Scale (random not generation will be based on this value)
2. Staff (options for Grand Staff, Bass Staff, Alto Staff, and Treble 8va staff(for guitar)).
3. Number of voices (random note generation will use this value to at some point)
4. An adjustable metronome, with both audio and visual cues.

Then the staff will be underneath and spaced so that it is easy to read. 

The ability to change: 
1. To change the current scale.
    a. Which changes the key signature.
2. The current staff with options for Grand Staff, Bass Staff, Alto Staff, and Treble 8va staff(for guitar).

The ability to generate music multiple voices with Soprano/Alto/Tenor/Bass formatted note stemming.

I would like to add staff options for Grand Staff, Bass Staff, Alto Staff, and Treble 8va staff(for guitar).

Add the ability to change keys
1. Key signature should update. 

I would like to add a metronome in the UI. It should consist of the following for adjusting the tempo and contain visual and audio cues, which can be toggled on/off.
1.  Adjusting the metronome BPM via 3 separate means which are logically grouped together: a slider, a tap/click(for a user "tapping" a tempo), and an input field for manually entering the tempo BPM.
2. An audible clicking sound that keeps the tempo time. Can be toggled on or off.
3. An a small, but noticeable, flashing area which also keeps time. Can be toggled on or off.

Add toggle for switching between 3 different learning modes:
1. Note learning: when the cursor doesn't progress until the current note is played correctly
2. Sight reading: 

Finale-Sibelius style:
This is a large overview of what I would like to know if it is possible, without being overly complex.
Ability to input notes with a mouse and/or keyboard and adjust the note on the staff accordingly.

Could functionality be added to utilize virtual instruments as the playback sounds?
It could be synced up with VST manager apps such as Kontakt, Spitfire Audio App, along with others.
Assuming the user has the VSTs and appropriate licenses.